>> Estelle: So we've talked
about controlling the placement.
But we actually haven't talked
about making it pretty yet.
So now that we have all of these
items we want to make them grow, and
shrink, and to be the right size.
So for that we have flexibility.
So we have three properties that
are actually part of the flex shorthand.
And you are highly encouraged to use
the flex shorthand and not the flex-grow,
flex-shrink or flex-basis.
But we're gonna cover the flex-grow,
flex-shrink and flex-basis so
you fully understand them.
That way you fully understand what you're
writing when you write the shorthand.
So the flex-grow basically says
if you have any extra space,
if there's any available space, how do
you divide that up among the flex items?
You divide it up among the flex
items that have a flex-grow value of
anything greater than zero.
>> Estelle: Proportionally
based on that value.
So if you have one that has 0.1,
one that has a value of 1, and
one that has a value of 2.
>> Estelle: Let's
say you have 210 pixels, no, 310 pixels.
The one that says 2 will get 200 pixels,
the one that says 1 will get 100 pixels.
And the one that says
0.1 will get 10 pixels,
and that is not actually accurate,
because it's gonna be off by a little bit.
It's basically you have
3.1 flex-growth factors,
and you have to divide, whatever.
Okay, then you have flex-shrink, and
that's if there's not enough room and
items are allowed to shrink,
how much to they shrink proportionally?
And they shrink proportionally
based on their shrink factor.
And then you have flex-basis which says,
okay,
what is the starting size of this element
and how much should it grow or shrink?
So here, we have a flex container,
it's displayed flex and
it has flex-flow of row and wrap.
Just like all the other A through Zs,
but it looks different.
It looks different because, as I said,
every odd element should
be allowed to grow and
it should have a starting
width 220 pixels.
So that does not mean
it's going to have 220
pixels.
>> Estelle: Because
it really also depends on
what the other words are.
So xylophone, pterodactyl,
janitors, nincompoop,
valentine, petunia, this is gonna sound,
well if someone was actually transcripting
this would sound really weird.
But all of the ones that aren't allowed
to grow are the width of their content.
Their flex-basis is basically
their content and that's it,
they're not growing,
they're not shrinking.
Remember when, as I said,
if I said no wrap,
yeah no wrap, alphabet is 220 pixels,
banana is the size of it's content.
Crayons is 220 pixels,
dinosaurs is the size
of it's content and
eggplant is 220 pixels.
Now if I allow it to wrap, you see that
part of the one that starts with the F?
You can see part of it, right?
If I allow it to wrap, the foundation
goes down to the next line and eggplant,
crayons, and alphabet actually grew,
because it has a growth factor of 1.
So don't worry if you don't
understand this right now,
I just wanna show you what we're coming
up with and what we're trying to fix.
And then at the end of this section,
you'll understand how to do this.
So it's basically saying by default,
make it 220 pixels, and
if there's any room to grow,
divide it evenly among all those
that have a growth factor.
So this has a growth factor of 1,
this has a growth factor of 1, and
this has a growth factor of 1.
We had about 30 extra pixels,
so these are actually,
probably, 230 pixels,
230 pixels, and 230 pixels.
And what we can do is.
>> Estelle: We can go to the kittens, and
go to, eggplant was one of the ones
that was able to grow, right?
Computed it's 228 pixels wide,
so we got about 8 pixels.
>> Estelle: Okay, so flex,
I basically said, flex 2 for
a and b and flex 1 for c.
So that sets two growth factors,
flex-grow.
>> Estelle: The reason that comes out
looking different is because
C has way more text.
So that's why it's important
to understand everything.
So basically here,
it's saying the flex-basis is zero,
for A, B and C because I used
the short hand so, it's 200 and 100.
And because A and B have the flex-grow
factor, of 2, there's 2 of them right?
So that's a total of four growth factors.
And C has a growth factor of 1,
so that's a fifth growth factor.
So let's say it's 1,000 pixels wide,
which it's not, but
let's say it's a 1,000 pixels wide,
because that's easy to do the math.
Then C would be 200 pixels and
A and B would both be 400 pixels.
And right now it's more likely
that it's 150, 300, and 300.
And let's do that again, let's look at
our debugger, click this, go to computed.
334.
>> Estelle: 334.
And 167,167 is half of 334
>> Estelle: Okay, so
flex-basis is what is the basis
on which it's allowed to grow?
There's many values.
We saw 220 pixels and
said basically start with 220 pixels.
This thing is 220 pixels wide,
and then whatever
else is attributed to the growth factor,
right?
So when you use Auto, Auto says basically,
this element is its width.
Or it's main size is the main
size of its content.
So the width,
in this case the width of its text.
So in the first one, the mains,
the auto means that the flex-basis
is the width of this thing.
It's the width of this thing and
it's the width of this thing.
So this has a flex growth factor of 3,
1, and 2.
So, let say it has an extra 120 pixels,
right,
there's 120 pixels of free space.
So here it would have 10 pixels, 10
pixels, 10 pixels, 10 pixels, 10 pixels,
10 pixels,
it would have three on each side.
Here it would have one on each side and
here it would have two on each side.
It basically divided that
extra space into six parts.
And then gave each one
of those flex items.
1/6 when the flex plural factor is one,
2/6 or
1/3 when the flex plural factor is 2, and
50% of the flex plural
factor when the factor is 3.
Because the default was auto,
thats a tiny little space.
When the flex-basis is zero,
it means by default the width is zero.
The width of this element is zero.
So, a hundred percent of
the width of the container is
the available space to be divided
among the course factors.
And so, the flex side among the right
gets 3/6th of that or half of it.
The one in the middle gets one-sixth of
it cuz the flex growth factor is one.
And the one on the left gets
one-third because its flex factor is,
growth factor's two so
it's two out of six or
one-third.
>> Estelle: Does that make sense how does
was this distributed?
It's really important to understand
the difference between auto and zero.
>> Speaker 2: So auto [COUGH] just Takes
into account actual content and
zero disregards and
just divides the space equally.
>> Estelle: So
it could've been instead of zero percent
it could have been 100 pixels and so
each one of those would be 100 pixels
would be attributed to each one and
then the rest of the available space would
be divided amongst the growth factors.
So when you have zero, it means by
default it's zero pixels wide so
everything is available space.
When you don't say what the flex basis is,
when it defaults to auto or
you set it to auto,
it says what is the width of the content.
We will eventually get the value
of content but that is not yet
supported in browsers.
>> Estelle: Okay.
>> Estelle: So here is a different way of
looking at it.
We have flex containers.
There's not enough available space.
>> Estelle: And so
these are allowed to shrink.
>> Estelle: The thing is they
will never shrink to less
than their longest word.
So the content with the comma
is the longest word.
And the word explicitly
So even though the three on the right, the
three on the right are actually growing,
because they have a flex-basis of zero.
So the available space should be,
the one on the right,
you'd think it would be three times
the size of the one in the middle.
But it's still not going to, if it has,
it will be as least as wide as its,
narrowest, or widest word,
because it doesn't want to cut off words.
It's not going to make a strip of just one
letter; I don't know if anyone here uses-
like I use squirrel-mail- And
half the time that I get mail.
it's just one letter all the way down.
And I'm like, it's not possible to
read this and I'm not going to try.
And that's when I drew a resource and
tried to find out what they
were actually writing.
Here, it is basically to show that even
though you have a flex-basis of zero,
it's still going to try to
fit because it's basically,
it's dividing up the available space.
But it's also saying,
I wanna fit the content.
>> Estelle: Okay.
>> Estelle: When you look at the slide and
you're like, what was I trying to prove?
Okay.
So, number B is of the order negative one,
and it has a flex of 40%,
which means it's allowed- all
of them have a flex of 20%,
so it would be one fifth the size- and
this one has a flex of 40%.
and it's actually twice
the size of the others.